---
title: "Stamp-collecting, and how to resist the urge"
date: 2020-12-21
tags: [learning-strategies]
---
Stamp-collecting is what I call the gathering of stuff before realizing the pain points it addresses. It's is a close cousin of the more infamous Tutorial Purgatory, and in several ways, it's worse. 

As I waded into web development, I knew I'd need to gather tools and resources--new programs, reading materials, twitter accounts to follow, the works. I also knew that my nearly-five-year-old computer has a solid-state drive, which would not take kindly to having me download things only to delete or uninstall them shortly thereafter. And then there's the all-too-familiar uneasiness from signing up for too many courses. So when I started my bootcamp, I promised myself that I would not stockpile anything, unless it met at least one point on a certain set of criteria.

## For bookmarking webpages:
(This also applies to saving infographics, pdfs, etc.)
- I've manually looked up for something on that page/article several times
- it's from a website or author whose teaching style clicks with me
    - the webpage covers a topic that is fundamental to web development

## For software:
- it is lightweight and/or portable
- it has a visually simple and clean interface
- it is has documentation that is easy to read
- it has features that resolve pain points that I *personally* have experienced

## To start, I only needed a text editor and a browser
At the start, I had yet to experience *any* pain points while writing. I don't mean that things magically worked all the time--they didn't. But in terms of the act of typing out the code, it was mostly painless. So for a long time, my text editor was Notepad, a pre-installed program. I quickly graduated to **Notepad++**, but used a portable .exe file on a USB stick. And for my web browser, I went with **Edge and Firefox**. That's it. There were few options for customizing things, and few features to learn, so my focus stayed on actually learning HTML and CSS.

## What do I currently use?
I've stayed with the same web browsers.

Around the point that the cohort started learning Javascript, I downloaded **VSCode**. By that point, the other bootcampers had had the chance to report back on which editors they had tried. I hadn't heard too much frustration from VSCode users. I also have **Node.js** installed for debugging, rather than console.log'ing in a browser.

## What pain points does it resolve?
I used to manually open up a browser after saving changes to my HTML and CSS files. When writing lists, I'd copy and paste duplicate lines, and write out the closing tags myself. I'd have to look up keywords and syntax, because my editor wouldn't suggest or autocomplete anything. *And I mostly still do things the long way for Javascript.* I want to understand the consequences of forgetting certain bits of syntax. I write my HTML and CSS files using all the work-load-lightening tools, in order to make more time for Javascript. I've done enough reps with the first two languages to know which steps I'm skipping thanks to a shortcut. Without that awareness, I think I'd be worse off.

## Are there drawbacks?
This isn't the best idea in every situation. Spending time with one IDE or tool from the start would have made me more competent that tool. I'm okay with this, because I know the mechanics of the languages I've learned independently of the mechanics of the tools I use to write them. If I was going to be evaluated by someone else, I may have traded competence in languages for competence with an IDE, because the way I use the IDE would be one of the most easily visible markers of overall competence. *How do I quickly move this block of code down five rows* can be conflated with *How does HTML work?* and it would count against me.

## I went stamp-collecting once. It was awful.
It happened shortly after downloading VSCode, which makes me glad I held off on downloading it for so long. 

It gave me the option of choosing a theme. It gave me the option to add extensions. It gave me the option to create hotkeys. And I indulged in all of the above. I'll walk you through one of these follies. 

I decided an in-editor browser preview would be helpful. So I looked up a live browser extension. This live browser extension needed an in-browser extension. I realized this after I'd already downloaded the live browser extension. A different live browser extension was really just a way to create a hotkey to preview. And as someone who prefers lightweight apps, I did not have the live browser extension's preferred browser installed on my computer, so that caused an error. A few different live browser extension installs later, I settled on one that doesn't update the preview as I type, but upon saving.

## But...but...

Maybe it seems like overkill to have 'protocols' in place to download or bookmark something. Adding resources *feels* like you're being productive. It *feels* like you're looking out for your future self. But left unchecked, there is something quiet-yet-sinister about the way it can keep you from making actual progress. With the volume of resources and tools out there, it is better to only download, install, or save things when I can clearly articulate the improvement I'm expecting to see as a result.

I went against the wisdom of the crowd when choosing a spaced-repetition software. If you'd like to read a bit about how I use Mochi to review, click [here](https://3dvkr.github.io/blog/flashcards/).

Thanks for reading! I hope it was useful. I'd love to hear your thoughts over on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/_dvkr).
